---
title: "$ABSROOT"
tags: arch
layout: post
---

Now that I've been with Arch for a few years, I find myself using the
[ABS][1] much more frequently to rebuild packages from the repos.  The
abs(3) script is nice because it now lets you grab a single package from
the repos without having to waste space and bandwidth synching the
entire abs tree.  If you haven't read up on the ABS yet, I highly
encourage you to do so.

The convenience of the abs script has only one drawback that I can see;
you specifiy an `$ABSROOT`, and packages end up in `$ABSROOT/$REPO`.  For
example if I set `ABSROOT=$HOME/pkgs` and run `abs extra/pkgtools`, I
end up with `$HOME/pkgs/extra/pkgtools`.  This is a very minor issue but
it's very annoying when you'd like to keep all of your self built
packages in one place.  I've come up with a workaround and I'd like to
see if anyone can suggest a better way to accomplish this.

First, create an absroot directory that holds symlinks for all repos abs
knows about.

{% highlight bash %}
mkdir ~/.absroot
cd $_

for i in core extra community testing; do 
    ln -s ~/pkgs $i;
done
{% endhighlight %}

Then, in *$HOME/.abs.conf*:

{% highlight bash %}
ABSROOT="$HOME/.absroot"
SYNCARGS='-mrtv --no-motd --delete-after --no-p --no-o --no-g --keep-dirlinks'
{% endhighlight %}

The `SYNCARGS` are key here.  They are default options with the
exception of `--keep-dirlinks`.  Without this setting, rsync will wipe
out the symlinks you made above and your packages won't end up where you
expect them.

With these settings, I can now run `abs extra/pkgtools` and I will have
a `$HOME/pkgs/pkgtools` directory amidst all the AUR packages I've
collected.

If anyone knows an alternative solution, I'd be glad to hear it -- I'd
also like to know of any major side effects, so [let me know][2] what
you think.

[1]: http://wiki.archlinux.org/index.php/ABS
[2]: /about/

